---
sidebar_position: 9
---

import useBaseUrl from "@docusaurus/useBaseUrl";
import { CentralCluster } from "../../../src/components/Clusters";
import OpenAPISpecRenderer from "../../../src/components/OpenAPISpecRenderer";
import { OpenSourceExample } from "../../../src/components/OpenSourceExample";

# Cluster Manager

The Cluster Manager commissions new clusters, and allows central
services to encrypt secret information for transfer to the edge
clusters.

<OpenSourceExample buttonText={'ACS Cluster Manager Component'}
                   repoUrl={'https://github.com/AMRC-FactoryPlus/acs-cluster-manager'}></OpenSourceExample>

## Overview

<CentralCluster hilite="cluster-manager"/>

The Cluster Manager mainly operates autonomously, acting on requests in
the form of ConfigDB entries. To create a new cluster, first a UUID must
be allocated under the _Edge cluster_ class. Then an _Edge cluster
configuration_ ConfigDB entry must be created for this object,
specifying the details for the new cluster.

The Cluster Manager will pick up the new ConfigDB entry automatically
and will commission the new cluster; this consists of creating and
populating a Git repo within the local Git server to drive the new
cluster. The status of this process is recorded in the corresponding
_Edge cluster setup status_ entry; once that entry has the property
`ready: true` the cluster is created and ready to be deployed. At this
point the URL of a bootstrap script for the new cluster can be fetched
from the Cluster Manager via its HTTP API.

This bootstrap script will attach the new cluster to the Factory+
installation as an edge cluster, create credentials for the cluster, and
install the edge cluster infrastructure. Once it has been run the Edge
Sync operator will be running on the edge cluster and this will keep the
_Edge cluster status_ ConfigDB entry up to date. One of the items in
this entry is a public key which can be used to encrypt secrets such
that only the edge cluster can decrypt them.

The Cluster Manager has an API endpoint to make use of this facility.
This endpoint will accept secret information, encrypt it, and construct
a Kubernetes SealedSecret resource containing the encrypted data. This
will then be committed to the cluster's driving Git repo from where Flux
running on the edge cluster will retrieve it. The Sealed Secrets
operator running on the edge will decrypt the secret information and
make it available on the edge cluster as a Kubernetes Secret.

## HTTP interface

<OpenAPISpecRenderer url={useBaseUrl('/spec/cluster-manager.yaml')}
    text={'the Cluster Manager component'}/>

## Well-Known UUIDs

These well-known UUIDs are part of the core framework and all **MUST**
to be registered with the Configuration Store component under the
appropriate classes.

### Configuration and discovery

<WellKnownUUID type='Service Function' name='Cluster Manager'
               uuid='2706aa43-a826-441e-9cec-cd3d4ce623c2'
               description='The Service UUID used for locating the Cluster Manager endpoints'/>

<WellKnownUUID type="Class" name="Edge cluster"
    uuid="f24d354d-abc1-4e32-98e1-0667b3e40b61"
    description="ConfigDB Class used for edge cluster UUIDs"/>

<WellKnownUUID type="Application" name="Edge cluster configuration"
    uuid="bdb13634-0b3d-4e38-a065-9d88c12ee78d"
    description="Requested configuration for an edge cluster"/>

<WellKnownUUID type="Application" name="Edge cluster setup status"
    uuid="747a62c9-1b66-4a2e-8dd9-0b70a91b6b75"
    description="Private status entry used by the Cluster Manager"/>
